Add a page on GraphOS subgraph security (#357)
apollographql/docs: src/content/graphos/graphs/securing-a-subgraph.mdx

---
title: Securing a subgraph
description: With GraphOS
---

It's important that subgraphs are [not directly accessible](/federation/building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview/#securing-your-subgraphs) from anything except your Router. This article is a step-by-step guide to securing a subgraph when using [GraphOS Cloud Routing](/graphos/routing/cloud).

## 1. Create a secret

The key to authenticating requests to your subgraph is to have a secret token which only the router and the subgraph know. There are many ways to generate a random secret, for example, your password manager should have a "generate password" function which can serve the role.

For completeness, here are some commands that will generate a suitably random secret if you have the appropriate tool installed:

1. `openssl rand -base64 256`
2. `python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(256))"`
3. `node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(256).toString('base64'));"`

## 2. Add the secret to the router config

> Within the variant settings for your graph, there is a "Cloud Routing" section. In this section, you can add a new secret as well as configure that secret to be used for a specific subgraph (see [Managing secrets](/graphos/routing/cloud-configuration#managing-secrets) for more info).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your cloud supergraph's router needs to know the shared secret so it can include it in all requests to the corresponding subgraph. You add the secret in the **Cloud Routing** section of your graph variant's Settings page.

> For details, see [Managing secrets](/graphos/routing/cloud-configuration#managing-secrets).
```

> We recommend creating one secret per subgraph, and using the header name `Router-Authorization`, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you define the secret, you can inject its value into your router's configuration as an environment variable, as shown below. We recommend setting the value in a header named `Router-Authorization` (and again, create a separate secret _for each subgraph_):
```

```yaml
headers:
  subgraphs:
    products:
      request:
        - insert:
          name: "Router-Authorization"
          value: "${env.PRODUCTS_SUBGRAPH_SECRET}"
    users:
      request:
        - insert:
          name: "Router-Authorization"
          value: "${env.USERS_SUBGRAPH_SECRET}"
```

## 3. Configure the subgraph to require the secret

> The configuration of the subgraph is going to depend greatly on your framework and hosting provider. Typically, there will be a way to save the secret in your hosting provider and have it injected as an environment variable to your subgraph. Then, you will read this environment variable in your subgraph and enforce authentication using it. All the [templates from Rover](/graphos/graphs/creating-a-subgraph#starting-from-a-template) have this functionality built in—just make sure to set the `ROUTER_SECRET` environment variable. If you already have a subgraph, you can look at the relevant template code for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact steps you take to require the shared secret in your subgraph depend on:

- The language and framework your subgraph uses
- The service you use to host your subgraph

Most cloud providers include a mechanism for saving secrets that are then made available to your application as environment variables. Your subgraph should read the secret from an environment variable and reject any incoming requests that _don't_ include that secret in the specified header.

> All subgraph templates [provided by the Rover CLI](/graphos/graphs/creating-a-subgraph#starting-from-a-template) include this functionality out of the box. To use it, set the value of the `ROUTER_SECRET` environment variable.
>
> If you have an existing subgraph that wasn't created from a template, you can check a similar template's source code for an example.
```

> [//]: # (TODO: Update the templates to do this!)

Reviewer: Cut, yeah? I mean, good reminder and all 😄

Author: This is to stop me from merging the lie 😅. It's _almost_ true

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ## 4. Test it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Test the configuration
```

> First, verify that your Router can still query the subgraph by running a query which includes fields from that subgraph in Apollo Studio. Then, try to query the subgraph directly (e.g., via [Apollo Studio Sandbox](/graphos/explorer/sandbox)) and verify that you get an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the shared secret to both your router _and_ subgraph, do the following to confirm that communication has been secured as intended:

1. Verify that your router _can_ still communicate with the subgraph by executing a test query against the router from the Explorer.
    - Make sure the query includes at least one field from the relevant subgraph!
2. Verify that other clients _can't_ communicate with the subgraph by executing a test query _against the subgraph directly_.
    - This query should fail with an authorization error.
```
